---
title: evaporated milk
tags:
- ingredient

---
evaporated milk = condensed milk = concentrated milk This is sold in cans, and comes either whole or nonfat. Don't confuse it with sweetened condensed milk, which has lots of sugar and is not a good substitute. While evaporated milk is sometimes called condensed milk, most recipes that call for condensed milk are referring to sweetened condensed milk. Evaporated milk is sold with varying amounts of butterfat, ranging from whole evaporated milk with about 8% to skim evaporated milk with about 0.5%. To reconstitute evaporated milk, combine it with an equal amount of water. Substitutes: half & half OR milnot (available in Britain; whips better than evaporated milk) OR cream (higher in fat, but works well in pumpkin pies) See also: milk goat's milk This comes with varying percentages of butterfat. You can buy it fresh, or as powdered milk, canned evaporated milk, or UHT milk packed in aseptic containers. Fresh is best for drinking and delicate desserts, the other kinds pick up an unpleasant caramelized flavor when they're heated for packaging. Substitutes: cow's milk (This is less expensive and milder-tasting, but harder to digest than goat's milk.) OR oat milk (This is more expensive and less nutritious, but a good all-purpose substitute for milk in cooking. This is a good choice for vegetarians who object to the animal exploitation involved in the production of goat's or cow's milk.) OR buttermilk (Especially good in pancakes or waffles. If using in baked goods, 1C milk = 1 C buttermilk - 2 teaspoons baking powder + 1/2 teaspoon baking soda) OR soy milk (This is more expensive and, unless fortified, less nutritious than goat's milk. It has a nutty flavor and turns beige when cooked. It works well in most baked goods, but it's a risky substitute in savory dishes.) OR rice milk (This is more expensive and, unless fortified, less nutritious. It's great for making desserts, but it's too sweet for savory dishes) OR almond milk (This is also more expensive and, unless fortified, less nutritious. It's very sweet, so use it in desserts only) OR water (This makes eggs creamier in scrambled eggs and gives breads a coarser texture and a lighter crust.) half-and-half = half & half (10.5 - 18% fat) Substitutes: equal parts cream and milk OR evaporated milk OR 7/8 C milk + 1 ½ tablespoons butter or margarine heavy cream = heavy whipping cream (at least 36% fat) Substitutes: creme fraiche (for making cream sauces) OR 1 C heavy cream = ¾ C milk + 1/3 C butter (will not whip) OR light cream (will not whip) OR evaporated milk (especially in cream sauces) OR milk (will not whip; makes cream sauces much less flavorful) OR blend equal parts milk and cottage cheese (Warning: Substituting light cream or milk for heavy cream lowers the amount of fat in a dish, but it makes ice cream and sauces less rich and creamy.) OR pureed cottage cheese OR pureed ricotta cheese OR silken tofu (especially for ice cream--for directions, see the Tofu Ice Cream recipe posted by Veggie Unite!) Notes: Unlike heavy cream, lower-fat substitutes like half-and-half and evaporated milk tend to "break" or curdle when added to sauces. To prevent this from happening, heat the sauce over low or medium heat, or reduce the cream substitute before adding it to the sauce. Don't let the sauce boil. Cream sauces made with lower-fat cream substitutes also tend to have less body; to correct for that, consider adding 1 tablespoon flour or 2 teaspoons cornstarch to the sauce for every cup of evaporated milk substituted. Stir the thickener into a paste first to prevent lumps. Ultra-pasteurized whipping cream is harder to whip and has some unpleasant flavor notes.

### Links

* [[milk-and-cream]]
